[Source: Reddit Review /r/CUNY]
Topic: Study Abroad at BMCC

Anyone here studied abroad at BMCC?

Can anyone tell me what to expect (general expectations) as well as their experience for studying abroad? I’m kind of considering doing it one day though I just have a few questions. (I’m a liberal arts major btw)

it’s supposed to cost more than regular tuition from what I heard, so do FAFSA and TAP still pay off most of it or do you have to pay most yourself out of pocket?

Does it require any requirements like high GPA, etc?

If possible, can anyone give me a estimate of much they paid to study abroad in comparison to regular tuition? (like how much more expensive it’ll be or if it depends on the trip) sorry if this doesn’t make proper sense

Hi! I studied abroad through BMCC for the winter semester. Winter semester programs are significantly cheaper than summer programs, but are also a fraction of the duration, so the prices make sense. For general expectations, I would say the program was extremely tiring, but out of my own volition. I was up at the crack of dawn and returned to the hotel in early morning hours nearly daily, but that's not at all a program requirement --- I just felt the urge to explore as much as possible before leaving. You're expected to do the course associated with that certain study abroad program, but in my experience, it wasn't difficult at all. I had plenty of time to focus on what I wanted to do.

For my program, the original cost without the flight cost $650, but BMCC later got more funding, and decreased the cost to only $300. My flight cost $1,200, though. They did have ways to get a flight for cheaper through Student Universe, but I was accepted into the program extremely late, so most of the good flights were gone. FAFSA and TAP does not cover study abroad at all. You will either have to pay out of pocket or apply for scholarships tailored to study abroad programs.

I believe the minimum GPA to apply was 2.5 but you can check for yourself on the BMCC Study Abroad website.

I detailed the amount I paid in the first question, but that was specifically for the winter session. For summer, it will definitely cost more, but I took a look at the Summer 2025 offerings, and many programs are about $2.5k out of pocket, but many also include meals and the flight. The worth of the programs are up to you.

Feel free to message me with any more questions! I went to Kyoto, Japan in January of this year.

I’m looking to do Kyoto Japan for this upcoming winter semester as well!! Can you tell me a little bit about how CIEE is with exploring? When u say exploring did you do activities alone? Did they track where you went(freedom/safety wise)? How safe did you feel? I know the it’s winter there so would you say you would go again if you had the chance or would you wait to go in the summer/a different country?

it was the class the program is offering. Koreas class is “Korea in popular media” basically uncovering how Korea is portrayed in kdramas, digital media, K-pop which sounds super interesting to me (I can connect this back to my major which is Marketing) and then Japan was “modernizing ancient Japan” which was reviewing how Japan evolved to a world class participant in the international stage. Both interesting but I just found Korea to be a class I would find more interested in taking both would fall through/count as a credit so I might as well pick something I’m deeply interested in!!!